Last video we heard about how
relational databases use set theory and
relational algebra to allow us to pull
pretty much whatever data we want out of
a relational database.
In this video, we are going to talk about
how you learn to tell a database what you
want out of it.
The way you ask a database to
give you data is to write and
execute what is called a query.
The language or
code you use to write the queries is
SQL or structured query language.
SQL is used by every relational database
management system, abbreviated DBMS,
even if there are some slight nuanced
differences across platforms.
As a data analyst, you are almost
guaranteed to interact with the relational
database at some point in your career,
if not everyday.
But even if you are interacting with
databases that do not use traditional
relational structures, most database
management systems try really
hard to create query languages that
look as similar as possible to SQL.
Because SQL is so intuitive and so
ubiquitous in the database world.
Therefore, no matter what database
platform you end up working with,
it will advance your
career if you learn SQL.
And the more you understand
about SQL truly works,
the greater edge you will
have in the marketplace.
I have a slightly different view of
learning SQL than you will find in many of
the courses out there.
As a data analyst, you will be making lots
of queries, but you will not be setting up
or maintaining databases unless you
are working in an early stage startup.
Nonetheless, my experience has taught
me that you will learn queries
much faster and
your queries will be much more efficient
if you know some of the basic tools
that are used to set up databases.
In addition, if you know how to read
the documents database engineers and
managers create, your life will be much
easier when you start writing queries and
you'll be less likely to make certain
kinds of mistakes that lead you to
misinterpret your data.
So I really wanted to find ways to give
students in this course exposure to
the tools that are used
to design a database.
Fortunately, the person who wrote my
favorite tools was very generously willing
to share his resources with us.
Perhaps not surprisingly,
he also shares my view about learning SQL.
Here he is.
>> Hello, my name is Nenad Jukic, and
I'm a Professor of Information Systems at
Quinlan School of Business at
Loyola University Chicago.
It is difficult to learn
SQL as a pure beginner if
one doesn't know some basic things
about relational database model itself.
The main concept in
relational database model
that connects tables of
a concept of a foreign key.
And if a person doesn't really
understand why is it there,
how it works,
it makes learning SQL very unnatural.
So the best way to learn SQL in
my opinion is to first learn
few basic things about database design and
modeling before we start learning SQL.
>> Entity-Relationship diagrams or
ER diagrams
are one of the database design tools that
will be useful for you to understand.
ER diagrams are pictures
that represent how
the data in a database are supposed to
be connected or related to one another.
Relational schemas are another database
tool you will benefit from learning how to
read and understand.
Relational schemas are basically
maps of the database.
Sometimes relational schemas are missing
important information, that is contained
in an ER diagram, so it is useful to
practice and understand both tools.
Nenad has made a very well
design online program that
will allow us to practice making both
ER diagrams and relational schemas.
So here's what we're going to do for
the rest of this week.
In the next few videos, we are going
to go over some practical concepts of
how relational databases are organized,
and go over how to make ER diagrams and
relational schemas.
Then Nenad will show you himself how to
use the great online tool he created.
After practicing with
a couple assignments,
you will answer some questions about
the relational schema of a real
life department store data set we will be
using in the later weeks of the course.
And you will make your own ER diagram and
relational schema for
the real life startup data
set we will be using.
This will prepare you how to start
learning how to answer business questions
about those data sets next week
when we start writing SQL queries.
Are you excited?
I hope so.